I have been a professional Web Developer for over three years and a programmer for a little more than eight years. Most of my programming exposure has been towards higher level application programming like Web Development, with some occasional Systems Programming. As much I love Systems Software, Web Development, and Back-end development is my bread and butter for programming.

There comes a stage in a Web Developer's career when they start to hear things about scaling a web application. This could be because of some reasons, ranging from their applications unable to bear the increased load to learning about it from an article discussing challenges faced by big software companies on managing their applications. Whatever be the reason, it is a useful skill in your repertoire to be able to scale your application.

When it comes to learning on this topic, there are a moderate number of resources available on the internet on its theoretical aspects but surprisingly low when it comes to the practical issues. You can easily google for a tutorial to scale a web application, and most of them contain pointers, rather than a functional tutorial style walkthrough on how to scale.

The primary reason for writing these series of blogs is to make an account of all the things I did while learning on how to scale the application. Intention is not to write a go-to tutorial on scaling. It is paradoxical to say so considering my rant above on lack of proper tutorials on the topic, but the reason is that I am a novice when it comes to scaling a web application. Maybe once I have some level of experience in it, I'll write a tutorial on it.
